add docs: access member clusters through karmada (#1187)
karmada-io/karmada: docs/access-member-clusters-through-karmada.md

# Access member clusters through karmada

> Start from karmada v1.0 release, we support directly access member clusters through karmada and support unified authentication meanwhile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from karmada v1.0 release, we support direct access to member clusters through karmada with unified authentication.
```

> For detail discussion topic, see [here](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/discussions/1077).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed discussion topic, see [here](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/discussions/1077).
```

> Let's start with a quick experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a quick start.
```

## Quick experience

To quickly experience this feature, we experimented with karmada-apiserver cerificate.

> ###Step1: Obtain the karmada-apiserver Certificate

Reviewer 2: s/`###Step1`/`### Step1`

For karmada deployed using `hack/local-up-karmada.sh`, you can directly copy it from the `/root/.kube/` directory.

```
cp /root/.kube/karmada.config karmada-apiserver.config
```

### Step2: Grant permission to user `system:admin`

> `system:admin` is the user for karmada-apiserver certificate, we need to grant the `clusters/proxy` persionmission to it explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`system:admin` is the user for karmada-apiserver certificate. We need to grant the `clusters/proxy` permission to it explicitly.
```

Apply the following yaml file:

cluster-proxy-rbac.yaml:

<details>

<summary>unfold me to see the yaml</summary>

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: cluster-proxy-clusterrole
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - 'cluster.karmada.io'
  resources:
  - clusters/proxy
  resourceNames:
  - member1
  - member2
  - member3
  verbs:
  - '*'
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: cluster-proxy-clusterrolebinding
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: cluster-proxy-clusterrole
subjects:
  - kind: User
    name: "system:admin"
  - kind: Group
    name: "system:authenticated"
```

</details>

```
kubectl --kubeconfig /root/.kube/karmada.config --context karmada-apiserver apply -f cluster-proxy-rbac.yaml
```

### Step3: Access member clusters

> Run as below, replace `{clustername}` to your real cluster name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the below command (replace `{clustername}` with your actual cluster name):
```

```
kubectl --kubeconfig karmada-apiserver.config get --raw /apis/cluster.karmada.io/v1alpha1/clusters/{clustername}/proxy/api/v1/nodes
```

> Or append `/apis/cluster.karmada.io/v1alpha1/clusters/{clustername}/proxy ` to the server address of karmada-apiserver.config , and then you can directly use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or append `/apis/cluster.karmada.io/v1alpha1/clusters/{clustername}/proxy ` to the server address of karmada-apiserver.config, and then you can directly use:
```

```
kubectl --kubeconfig karmada-apiserver.config get node
```

> > Note: For the member cluster that joins karmada in pull mode,  we can deploy apiserver-network-proxy(ANP) to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: For a member cluster that joins karmada in pull mode,  we can deploy apiserver-network-proxy (ANP) to access it.
```

## Unified authentication

> For one or a group of user subjects(users, groups, or service accounts ) in a member cluster, we can import it into karmada control plane and grant it the `clusters/proxy` permission, so that we can access the member cluster with permission of the user subject through karmada.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For one or a group of user subjects (users, groups, or service accounts) in a member cluster, we can import them into karmada control plane and grant them the `clusters/proxy` permission, so that we can access the member cluster with permission of the user subject through karmada.
```

> In this section, we use a serviceaccount named `zhangsan` for the test.

Reviewer: personal suggestion:
Use common English elements instead. For example, replace "zhangsan" with "tom"

Reviewer 3: +1

Author: OK, :>

> ### Step1: Create ServiceAccount in member1 cluster

Reviewer 2: This step is optional.

Create a serviceaccount that does not have any permission:

```
kubectl --kubeconfig /root/.kube/members.config --context member1 create serviceaccount zhangsan
```

> ### Step2: Create ServoceAccpimt in karmada control plane

Reviewer 2: s/`ServoceAccpimt`/S`erviceAccount`

> ### Step2: Create ServoceAccpimt in karmada control plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step2: Create ServiceAccount in karmada control plane
```

```
kubectl --kubeconfig /root/.kube/karmada.config --context karmada-apiserver create serviceaccount zhangsan
```

In order to grant serviceaccount the `clusters/proxy` permission, apply the following rbac yaml file:

cluster-proxy-rbac.yaml:

<details>

<summary>unfold me to see the yaml</summary>

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: cluster-proxy-clusterrole
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - 'cluster.karmada.io'
  resources:
  - clusters/proxy
  resourceNames:
  - member1
  verbs:
  - '*'
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: cluster-proxy-clusterrolebinding
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: cluster-proxy-clusterrole
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: zhangsan
    namespace: default

>   # The token generated by the serviceaccount can parse the gourp information. Therefore, here need to specify below group information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # The token generated by the serviceaccount can parse the gourp information. Therefore, you need to specify the group information below.
```

  - kind: Group
    name: "system:serviceaccounts"
  - kind: Group
    name: "system:serviceaccounts:default"
  - kind: Group
    name: "system:authenticated"   
```

</details>

```
kubectl --kubeconfig /root/.kube/karmada.config --context karmada-apiserver apply -f cluster-proxy-rbac.yaml
```

### Step3: Access member1 cluster

Obtain token of serviceaccount `zhangsan`:

```
kubectl get secret `kubectl get sa zhangsan -oyaml | grep token | awk '{print $3}'` -oyaml | grep token: | awk '{print $2}' | base64 -d
```

Then construct a kubeconfig file `zhangsan.config` for `zhangsan` serviceaccount:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    insecure-skip-tls-verify: true

>     server: {karmada-apiserver-address} # replace {karmada-apiserver-address} with karmada-apiserver-address, you can find it in /root/.kube/karmada.config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    server: {karmada-apiserver-address} # Replace {karmada-apiserver-address} with karmada-apiserver-address. You can find it in /root/.kube/karmada.config file.
```

  name: zhangsan
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: zhangsan
    user: zhangsan
  name: zhangsan
current-context: zhangsan
kind: Config
users:
- name: zhangsan
  user:
    token: {token} # replace {token} with the token obtain above.
```

> Run as below to access member1 cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the command below to access member1 cluster:
```

Reviewer: We can say "use the command that runs as below", but when the subject is you/user, the sentence becomes "you run as below". Logically doesnt make sense.

```

We can found that we were able to access, but run as below:

```
kubectl --kubeconfig zhangsan.config get --raw /apis/cluster.karmada.io/v1alpha1/clusters/member1/proxy/api/v1/nodes
```

It will fail because serviceaccount `zhangsan` does not have any permissions in the member1 cluster.

### Step4: Grant permission to Serviceaccount in member1 cluster

Apply the following YAML file:

member1-rbac.yaml

<details>

<summary>unfold me to see the yaml</summary>

```
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: zhangsan
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - '*'
  resources:
  - '*'
  verbs:
  - '*'
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: zhangsan
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: zhangsan
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: zhangsan
    namespace: default
```

</details>

```
kubectl --kubeconfig /root/.kube/members.config --context member1 apply -f member1-rbac.yaml
```

Run the command that failed in the previous step again:

```
kubectl --kubeconfig zhangsan.config get --raw /apis/cluster.karmada.io/v1alpha1/clusters/member1/proxy/api/v1/nodes
```

> The accession will be successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The access will be successful.
```

> Or we can append `/apis/cluster.karmada.io/v1alpha1/clusters/member1/proxy ` to the server address of zhangsan.config , and then you can directly use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or we can append `/apis/cluster.karmada.io/v1alpha1/clusters/member1/proxy ` to the server address of zhangsan.config, and then you can directly use:
```

```
kubectl --kubeconfig zhangsan.config get node
```

> > Note: For the member cluster that joins karmada in pull mode,  we can deploy apiserver-network-proxy(ANP) to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: For a member cluster that joins karmada in pull mode,  we can deploy apiserver-network-proxy (ANP) to access it.
```
